### What is API Gateway?
- It is a service provided by AWS to create, publish, maintain, and secure APIs.
- Also has support for OAUTH.
- Supports to have multiple versions of an API at the same time.
- Reduce latency by using AWS Cloudfront.
- Supports HTTPS.
- Supports caching.


### Backend Integrations:
- For serverless applications, can Invoke a lambda func to run business code on demand.
- For server applications, can act as a proxy for public endpoints.

### API Gateway options:
2 RESTful options:
1. REST API:
    - Offers API Proxy functionality and API management features.
2. HTTP API:
    - Cheaper & Faster than REST API but not supporting API management features.

### URL Pattern:
All the API end points created by the API gateway support the following pattern.
https://<Unique-ID generated by AWS>.execute-API.<region>.amazon.com/<stage>/<resource-path>

### Gateway integration
The integration type decides how the method request data is passed on to the backend.
1. Lambda Function:
    when using the API gateway as the gateway to a lambda function, this integration is used.
    For integrations with Lambda functions, you will need to set an IAM role with required permissions for API Gateway to call the backend on your behalf.
2. HTTP Endpoint:
    Useful in public web apps where we want clients to interact with the endpoints.
3. AWS Service:
    Useful when we want to expose some AWS service action. Eg: Dropping a message directly to an AWS SQS queue.
4. Mock:
    When the request is supposed to return some hardcoded value w/o sending the request further to backend.